Tony Kaizen:
What's up, my friend? You already know you're listening to
the Life in English podcast. I'm your host, Tony Kaizen, and
today I've got an entertaining episode for you. We're going
to be listening to a hilarious 911 phone call from a woman
who was having some domestic violence issues. Now, before
you get triggered, it goes without saying that there's
nothing inherently funny about domestic violence, but I'm
sure that by the end of this episode, you'll see that there
are times when it can be extremely comical. So let's not
waste any time, my friend. I'm going to play the audio clip
now.
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"911, what is your emergency?"
Woman:
"Yes, um, I need a police officer over here at 7..."
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"What's going on?"
Woman:
"Um, I've got two teenage daughters and I just got home from
work.
They were, um, physically fighting with each other, and one
of them kicked a hole in the door. And, um, they're 12 and
almost 14. And the 12-year-old is completely out of control.
And I...I can't...physically, if she's as big as I am, I
can't control her."
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Okay. Did you want us to come over and shoot her? Are you
there?"
Woman:
"Excuse me?"
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Uh, that's a joke.
Okay, so..."
Woman:
"Who are you? What is your name?"
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Mike Forbes."
Tony Kaizen:
Oh, shit.
Alright, my friend. First of all, let me say, don't feel bad
if you couldn't understand everything from this clip because
the audio wasn't so good and their accent is very different
from mine. So that's what we're about to talk about now. I'm
going to highlight some details that might be useful to you.
Alright? So the first thing you might have noticed about the
short dialogue is the accent of the people who are speaking,
particularly the woman. She's got that classic Southern
American accent, you know? It sounds like she might be from
Alabama or Georgia or Florida, but I'm not really sure. And
you might be asking yourself, but how do you know that,
Tony? How do you know where she's from? And there are a few
things that you can listen for that will let you know that
someone might be from the southern United States. For
example, in this clip, you might be able to notice a pattern
in the way the woman pronounces the words that have an "e-r"
or an "o-r" sound.
Woman:
"Um, I've got two teenage daughters and I just got home from
work. They were, um, physically fighting with each other,
and one of them kicked a hole in the door. And, um, they're
12 and almost 14. And the 12-year-old is completely out of
control. And I...I can't...physically, if she's as big as I
am, I can't control her."
Tony Kaizen:
So you see, the way she pronounces these words is different
from the way I pronounce it. I would say "daughter", "work",
"were", "other", "door", "fourteen", "your", and you might
also be able to notice a pattern in the way she pronounces
the "o" in words like "whole" and "control".
Woman:
"They were, um, physically fighting with each other and one
of them kicked a hole in the door."
Tony Kaizen:
And you might notice the way she says things like, "Excuse
me", or "Who are you?" and "What's your name?". It sounds
completely different from the way that I might say it, you
know?
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Are you there?"
Woman:
"Excuse me?"
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Uh, that's a joke. Okay, so..."
Woman:
"Who are you? What is your name?"
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Mike Forbes."
Tony Kaizen:
And this is what we refer to as the Southern twang. It's
just this particular, like, sound that you only hear in the
south of the United States, the way people pronounce their
words here. It's very drawn out, and, you know, it almost
sounds like they're singing a song and they say things like
"work" and "talk" and "walk". And this is a stereotypical
Southern accent, but I'm trying, you know what I mean? It's
not the best but I think if I had some more practice, I
think I'll sound a little bit like George Bush, the former
president of the United States of America. You got to love
America... Like this. It's that twang, bro. It's like that
Texas, Louisiana, Alabama, you know what I'm
saying...Georgia, some parts of Florida. This is how people
talk, you know? And that's one kind of Southern accent.
There's many different kinds. Right? So anyway, maybe this
isn't the best explanation of the accent and what makes it
unique, but hopefully you can identify those patterns in her
speech and then look out for them in the future. And I'll
definitely make some more episodes about accents and
dialects, uh, in the near future. Alright? But now, let's go
back to the beginning of the clip and analyze the actual
vocabulary. Alright? So the first thing, "What is your
emergency?"
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"911, what is your emergency?"
Tony Kaizen:
This is a common thing for a dispatcher to say when they
answer a 911 phone call. Right? And just in case you're
wondering, a dispatcher, according to the dictionary, is a
person whose job is to receive messages and organize the
movement of people or vehicles, especially in the emergency
services. And that's a very wordy and, you know, kind of
formal definition. So another way of saying that is a
dispatcher is a person who sends something to a destination.
And in this case, it's phone calls because maybe you call
911 but there's many different reasons you might call. In
one situation, it might be an armed robbery; in the other
situation, somebody is having a heart attack. So when you
call 911, they're going to reroute or redirect your phone
call to the proper organization. You see what I'm saying? In
one case, they might redirect your call to an ambulance or
the fire station and another call is to the police. You see
what I'm saying? So the person who redirects those phone
calls in this case is the dispatcher. Alright, so next is
"over here". Let's listen to that line one more time.
Woman:
"Yes, um, I need a police officer over here at 7..."
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"What's going on?"
Tony Kaizen:
You might be asking yourself, "Why did she say 'over here'
instead of just 'here'?" Well, when we use the word "over"
before words like "here" and "there", we're implying that a
significant distance needs to be traveled for one to arrive
"here" or "there". So in this case, the dispatcher and the
woman are very far away from each other. So she says "over
here", implying that they'll have to get in their cars and
travel to her house. A distance needs to be crossed, you
see? So what you can think about is like those old Mortal
Kombat movies when Scorpion, he had that weird snake-like
spiky thing coming out of his hand and he would yell, "Get
over here!" You guys remember that? And he would like,
pierce the victim, I guess, and the victim would be
across the room and he would pull the victim over to the
other side of the room. He would have to travel or cross
over that distance. Hopefully that makes sense. So you might
still be asking yourself, "What's the difference between
'here' and 'over here'"? "What is a phrase like, 'Come here'
mean, and why should I say 'Come here' instead of 'Come over
here?'" Well, "come here" is typically said when we're
physically close to someone, like, in the same room,
relatively close to each other, it's...and it's typically
used as a command. It's a very direct thing to say. And the
emphasis isn't on the distance being crossed. It's on the
fact that "I want you here right now". "Come here, now,
immediately." You see what I'm saying? And this is one of
those details that's really hard to explain because all the
rules and exceptions involved in this just kind of like make
it more confusing than helpful when I try to explain it to
you, you know? But I want you to understand that English
speakers tend to say a lot of things with reference to their
geographical location. That's what I want you to understand.
For example, we have a habit of saying "down here in the
South" when referring to the Southern United States. And I
say "down here", because I am here and here is at the bottom
of the map of the United States. So I say "down here". And
if I were referring to people in New York, I could say "up
there in New York", because they're located above me
geographically, they're up at the top of the map. You see
what I'm saying? So I'm really hoping this explanation was
more helpful than confusing. But feel free to leave any
questions or doubts you have on the Discord server. Alright?
Now, let's move on. The next one is "what's going on?"
Woman:
"Yes, um, I need a police officer over here at 7..."
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"What's going on?"
Tony Kaizen:
This is another way of asking, "What's happening?" So if
something is "going on", something is happening. Now,
another variation of this question might be, "What's wrong?"
or "What's the problem?" or "What's the issue?" Right? And
in this case, you're just trying to understand what is the
situation so that I can help you. Alright, next is
"teenage".
Woman:
"Um, I've got two teenage daughters and I just got home from
work."
Tony Kaizen:
"I've got two teenage daughters." The word "teenage" is used
to refer to adolescents between the ages of 13 and 19; it's
literally an adolescent at the teen age.
The age of a teen, you know what I'm saying? So that's why
we say, "teenage daughters", which implies that between 13
and 19, you get the idea. Alright, let's move on. Next is "I
just got home from work."
Woman:
"I've got two teenage daughters and I just got home from
work."
Tony Kaizen:
This is the most common way of saying that you have just
arrived at home after your time at work. So somebody says,
"I just got home." It literally means, "I recently arrived
at home." It's just a much more natural, informal way of
saying the same thing. Alright, "next is kicked a hole in
the door".
Woman:
"They were, um, physically fighting with each other and one
of them kicked a hole in the door."
Tony Kaizen:
"One of them kicked the hole in the door". And this
literally means to kick the door so hard that you leave a
hole in the door.
You know? So one might also kick a hole in a wall or um, I
guess those are the most common - kick a hole in the wall,
put a hole in the door. I don't know if you guys have
brothers or cousins, but maybe you're fighting in the house
-- like these two girls -- and things get a little too crazy
and next thing you know, you've got a new hole in the wall.
Anyway, now, you should understand what she meant when she
said they kicked the hole in the door. Let's move on. Next
is "completely out of control".
Woman:
"And, um, they're 12 and almost 14. And the 12-year-old is
completely out of control. And I...I can't...physically, if
she's as big as I am, I can't control her."
Tony Kaizen:
"The 12-year-old is completely out of control." And if
somebody is "completely out of control", it means they're
acting wild and crazy and no one can control or subdue them.
Right? They're just, I mean, it's chaos like wild animals,
right? So next is "she's as big as I am".
Woman:
"I can't...physically, if she's as big as I am, I can't
control her."
Tony Kaizen:
And this is a common sentence structure for comparing
things. So it's the verb "to be" plus "as" plus the
"adjective" plus "as" plus "something".
So I don't want to confuse you. That probably makes no sense
just listening to it. So let me give you the example: "The
daughter is as big as the mother." Right?
So we have subject and then the verb "to be" is "as big as",
right? As "adjective" as "something else". "This thing is as
big as that thing." So another way of saying that is the
daughter is the same size as the mother. That is another way
of saying the same thing. But this sentence structure is
super common, like, "I make as much money as you" or "I am
as tall as you." "My city is as cold as yours." It's a very,
very, very common sentence structure for saying that two
things are equal in quality. You know? Hopefully that makes
sense. But again, any questions you got, leave them on the
Discord server. So next on the list is "Did you want us to
come over and shoot her?"
Woman:
"Physically, if she's as big as I am, I can't control her."
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Okay. Did you want us to come over and shoot her?"
Tony Kaizen:
Now, remember that the mother said, "I need someone over
here." So the dispatcher then asked, "Do you want us to come
over?" So you see how they're naturally implying the
distance between them? This is something unconscious. It's
not something we think about. She says, I need someone over
here implying that they need to travel across some distance
to reach our house. And then he says, "Do you want us to
come over?" Because he knows he's going to have to travel a
considerable distance to reach her house. So, the reason I'm
saying that again is just to kind of reiterate the idea. So
hopefully it becomes more clear and you start to get the
idea the more you listen to people speak this way. Alright?
So when he says, "Did you want us to come over and shoot
her?", he literally means take out his gun, squeeze the
trigger, and put a bullet in her daughter. That's what it
means to shoot someone. And of course, it was a joke. So
next on the list is, "Are you there?"
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Okay. Did you want us to come over and shoot her? Are you
there?"
Tony Kaizen:
And this is a common way of asking if someone is still
connected to the phone call. Right? And we typically say
this when the call goes silent and it's not clear if the
person is still present. It's like, "Hello, are you there?
Can you hear me? Are you there? Hello?" It's a very, very
common way of asking that question. Alright. Next is "excuse
me". And this is a common and polite way of asking someone
to repeat themselves, but if you pay attention to the tone
of her voice, you might hear that she's communicating her
disbelief.
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Are you there?"
Woman:
"Excuse me?"
Mike Forbes (911 dispatcher):
"Uh, that's a joke."
Tony Kaizen:
She's not really saying, "I didn't hear you". She's really
communicating that she can't believe what he really said,
right? Her voice is communicating, like, "Did you really
just say that? Are you serious?" And she said all of these
with two simple words in a particular tone of voice. So I'm
bringing this to your attention because I want to remind you
that you shouldn't just pay attention to what people say.
You should also pay attention to how they say it. And this
will help you understand what somebody really means to say.
It's a communication skill that has nothing to do with
language. And once you master it, understanding natives
becomes much easier, even when you don't understand every
single word of the conversation. But hopefully now, you
understand every word of this hilarious conversation between
a mother and a 911 dispatcher. So that's it for now, my
friends. I hope you enjoyed this episode of The Life in
English podcast. Thank you so much for your time and your
attention. My name is Tony Kaizen, and I'll talk to you
soon. Peace!